---
{"dg-publish":true,"title":"Unpacking interview questions","tags":["quotes"],"date":"2022-09-01T10:43:00+03:00","modified_at":"2023-03-31T15:11:49+04:00","permalink":"/quotes/202209011043/","dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


> You may have noticed that all the questions in this series have the same structure. This is by design; it’s intended to give you a template for writing your own questions. Let’s make this structure explicit; here are the parts:

1.  The **value or skill** that the question is designed to measure. This should be something concrete and measurable, and of course something required for the job. Ideally, it will be the same as an area that will later be used in this role’s performance review. That way, you can correlate performance on interview questions with performance in the job.
    
2.  **The question**: I’ll be writing more about different types of questions, and which are most effective, in the future. Short version: behavioral questions (“tell me about a time when…") are the gold standard; hypothetical questions (“tell me what you would do if…") can be OK too. (See also [this discussion of behavioral questions](https://jacobian.org/2021/feb/11/interview-questions-disagreement/) from the disagreement question.)
    
3.  **Follow-ups**: what other questions might you want to ask after the main question? These should help guide candidates towards the important areas to talk about, help interviewers dig deeper, etc.
    
4.  **Behaviors to look for**: what should an interviewer be paying attention to as they assess a candidate’s answer? More on [what I mean by “behaviors”](https://jacobian.org/2021/feb/15/iq-series-wrap-up#on-behaviors) below.
    
5.  **Positive signs / red flags**: what are the strongest signals of a positive or a negative answer?

Link:: https://jacobian.org/2021/feb/15/iq-series-wrap-up/

---

Основные вопросы в рамках [[найм сотрудников]].
