---
{"dg-publish":true,"title":"Finding the correct service granularity is key for decomposing.","tags":["quotes"],"date":"2022-09-18T16:25:44+03:00","modified_at":"2023-01-03T11:38:37+04:00","permalink":"/quotes/202209181625/","dgHomeLink":false,"dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


> When decomposing a monolithic architecture, finding the correct service granularity is key. Creating large services alleviates problems like transactional contexts and orchestration, but does little to break the monolith into smaller pieces. Too-fine-grained components lead to too much orchestration, communication overhead, and interdependency between components.

For the first step in migrating architecture, developers identify new service boundaries. Teams may decide to break monoliths into services via a variety of partitioning as follows:
- Business functionality groups
    - A business may have clear partitions that mirror IT capabilities directly. Building software that mimics the existing business communication hierarchy falls distinctly into an applicable use of Conway’s Law (see “Conway’s Law”).
- Transactional boundaries
    - Many businesses have extensive transaction boundaries they must adhere to. When decomposing a monolith, architects often find that transactional coupling is the hardest to break apart, as discussed in “Two-Phase Commit Transactions”.
- Deployment goals
    - Incremental change allows developers to selectively release code on different schedules. For example, the marketing department might want a much higher cadence of updates than inventory. Partitioning services around operational concerns like speed to release makes sense if that criteria is highly important. Similarly, a portion of the system may have extreme operational characteristics (like scalability). Partitioning services around operational goals allows developers to track (via fitness functions) health and other operational metrics of the service.

Link:: [[Building Evolutionary Architectures|Building Evolutionary Architectures]]

---

Подходы к [[декомпозиция монолита|декомпозиция монолита]].
