---
{"dg-publish":true,"tags":["quotes"],"date":"2024-05-20T10:25:36+03:00","title":"calendar to find your roles on positions","modified_at":"2024-05-20T10:25:44+03:00","aliases":"calendar to find your roles on positions","dg-path":"/quotes/202405201025.md","permalink":"/quotes/202405201025/","dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


> Take a look at your calendar and write down your role in meetings. This goes for explicit roles, like owning a meeting’s agenda, and also for more nuanced roles, like being the first person to champion others’ ideas, or the person who is diplomatic enough to raise difficult concerns.
Take a second pass on your calendar for non-meeting stuff, like interviewing and closing candidates.
Look back over the past six months for recurring processes, like roadmap planning, performance calibrations, or head count decisions, and document your role17 in each of those processes.
For each of the individuals you support, in which areas are your skills and actions most complementary to theirs? How do you help them? What do they rely on you for? Maybe it’s authorization, advice navigating the organization, or experience in the technical domain.
Audit inbound chats and emails for requests and questions coming your way.
If you keep a to-do list, look at the categories of the work you’ve completed over the past six months, as well as the stuff you’ve been wanting to do but keep putting off.
Think through the external relationships that have been important for you in your current role. What kinds of folks have been important, and who are the strategic partners that someone needs to know?


Link:: [[Openbox/books/Become an Effective Software Engineering Manager|Become an Effective Software Engineering Manager]]
