---
{"dg-publish":true,"title":"different types of contraint","tags":["quotes"],"date":"2023-03-21T10:02:44+04:00","modified_at":"2023-07-12T15:55:09+03:00","alias":"different types of contraint","dg-path":"/quotes/202303211002.md","permalink":"/quotes/202303211002/","dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


> - Work Flow Constraint: The Constraint which is determined solely by the shape and form (the statistical distribution) of the incoming Work Load. It is literally the “things that come towards us.” Special Cause Variation is usually, but not always, manifested here. We can identify the Work Flow Constraint by looking at the heaviest queues in front of the work processes and teams. 
> - Work Process Constraint: The Constraint is determined by “how we do things around here” where the emphasis is on doing. It is how we actually touch the work and transform it during our Work Processes. Common Cause Variation is usually, but not always, manifested here. We can identify the Work Process Constraint by looking at the longest average InState Flow Time. 
> - Work Execution Constraint: The Constraint is determined by the fact that “things happen.” It is the overall impact of events that occur over time - both Special Cause Variation as well as Common Cause Variation - and that affect any relevant part of the system’s capacity to deliver at a particular moment. We can identify the Work Execution Constraint by looking at the Buffer Consumption of the different Work Processes as events unfold during Work Execution. The one with the most critical Buffer Burn Rate is the Work Execution Constraint.

Link:: [[Openbox/books/Tameflow\|Tameflow]]
