---
{"dg-publish":true,"title":"different contraints and its cure","tags":["quotes"],"date":"2023-03-21T10:17:17+04:00","modified_at":"2023-07-12T15:53:43+03:00","alias":"different contraints and its cure","dg-path":"/quotes/202303211017.md","permalink":"/quotes/202303211017/","dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


> - Work Flow Constraint The Jungle in the Jungle, Jeep, and Journey metaphor. “Things that we see coming toward us.” The business domain; the market/customer demand. Within our Sphere of Influence. VUCA Like a map which guides us through our Journey. How to detect it: Longest Work Load queue in front of a team. Cure: Portfolio Management board with DBR Scheduling orchestrated by the Work Process Constraint (see below), and ongoing executive Full-Kitting (see Chapter 15 - Full-Kitting as Ongoing Executive Activity). One of your teams is this Constraint. Caused mostly by Special Cause Variation and to a lesser extent by Common Cause Variation.
> - Work Process Constraint The Jeep in the Jungle, Jeep, and Journey metaphor. “How we do things around here.” The weakest performing activity (“Herbie”) of the team. Within our Span of Control. How to detect it: the column with the highest average Flow Time of our process on a TameFlow Board. Cure: DBR Board or Throughput Management Board with DBR Scheduling orchestrated by the Constraint column, plus Reason Logs, Frequency Analysis and Root Cause Analysis. Caused mostly by Common Cause Variation. Where the most worthy improvement opportunities are found.
> - Work Execution Constraint The Journey in the Jungle, Jeep and Journey metaphor. “Things that happen.” Moving through the Jungle and finding surprises: it is the project “execution” meeting the unexpected. Beyond our Sphere of Influence. We do not know what to expect; we are not in control of it; we cannot influence it. How to detect: Execution Management Signals (as explained in this chapter). Cure: Use Buffer Signals to trigger “Inspect and Adapt”. And use Buffer Management to “Sense and Respond.” Enhance with Reason Logs, Frequency Analysis and Root Cause Analysis. Caused almost entirely by Special Cause Variation.

Link:: [[Openbox/books/Tameflow\|Tameflow]]
