---
{"dg-publish":true,"title":"examples of open questions","tags":["quotes"],"date":"2023-02-05T14:56:45+04:00","modified_at":"2023-06-09T16:38:53+03:00","alias":"examples of open questions","dg-path":"/quotes/202302051456.md","permalink":"/quotes/202302051456/","dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


Ask yourself, “What are the questions I’ve always been interested in?” This could include grand, sweeping questions like “How can we make society fairer and more equitable?” as well as practical ones like “How can I make it a habit to exercise every day?” It might include questions about relationships, such as “How can I have closer relationships with the people I love?” or productivity, like “How can I spend more of my time doing high-value work?”

Here are more examples of favorite problems from my students:
    - How do I live less in the past, and more in the present?
    - How do I build an investment strategy that is aligned with my mid-term and long-term goals and commitments?
    - What does it look like to move from mindless consumption to mindful creation?
    - How can I go to bed early instead of watching shows after the kids go to bed?
    - How can my industry become more ecologically sustainable while remaining profitable?
    - How can I work through the fear I have of taking on more responsibility?
    - How can my school provide more resources for students with special needs?
    - How do I start reading all the books I already have instead of buying more?
    - How can I speed up and relax at the same time?
    - How can we make the healthcare system more responsive to people’s needs?
    - What can I do to make eating healthy easier?
    - How can I make decisions with more confidence?

Link:: [[Openbox/books/Building a Second Brain Book\|Building a Second Brain Book]]
