---
{"dg-publish":true,"title":"list of red flags in code","tags":["quotes"],"date":"2023-05-31T09:28:27+04:00","modified_at":"2023-08-11T15:31:42+03:00","alias":"list of red flags in code","dg-path":"/quotes/202305310928.md","permalink":"/quotes/202305310928/","dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


 - Shallow Module: the interface for a class or method isn’t much simpler than its implementation (see pp. 25, 110).
- Information Leakage: a design decision is reflected in multiple modules (see p. 31).
- Temporal Decomposition: the code structure is based on the order in which operations are executed, not on information hiding (see p. 32).
- Overexposure: An API forces callers to be aware of rarely used features in order to use commonly used features (see p. 36).
- Pass-Through Method: a method does almost nothing except pass its arguments to another method with a similar signature (see p. 46).
- Repetition: a nontrivial piece of code is repeated over and over (see p. 62).
- Special-General Mixture: special-purpose code is not cleanly separated from general purpose code (see p. 65).
- Conjoined Methods: two methods have so many dependencies that its hard to understand the implementation of one without understanding the implementation of the other (see p. 72).
- Comment Repeats Code: all of the information in a comment is immediately obvious from the code next to the comment (see p. 104).
- Implementation Documentation Contaminates Interface: an interface comment describes implementation details not needed by users of the thing being documented (see p. 114).
- Vague Name: the name of a variable or method is so imprecise that it doesn’t convey much useful information (see p. 123).
- Hard to Pick Name: it is difficult to come up with a precise and intuitive name for an entity (see p. 125).
- Hard to Describe: in order to be complete, the documentation for a variable or method must be long. (see p. 131).
- Nonobvious Code: the behavior or meaning of a piece of code cannot be understood easily. (see p. 148).

Link:: [[Openbox/books/A Philosophy of Software Design\|A Philosophy of Software Design]]
