---
{"dg-publish":true,"title":"dos and donts for system design interview","tags":["quotes"],"date":"2024-01-10T15:49:36+03:00","modified_at":"2024-02-27T11:12:21+03:00","aliases":"dos and donts for system design interview","dg-path":"/quotes/202401101549.md","permalink":"/quotes/202401101549/","dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


#### Do's

- Always ask for clarification. Do not assume your assumption is correct.
- Understand the requirements of the problem.
- There is neither the right answer nor the best answer. A solution designed to solve the problems of a young startup is different from that of an established company with millions of users. Make sure you understand the requirements.
- Let the interviewer know what you are thinking. Communicate with your interview.
- Suggest multiple approaches if possible.
- Once you agree with your interviewer on the blueprint, go into details on each component. Design the most critical components first.
- Bounce ideas off the interviewer. A good interviewer works with you as a teammate.
- Never give up.

#### Don’ts

- Don't be unprepared for typical interview questions.
- Don’t jump into a solution without clarifying the requirements and assumptions.
- Don’t go into too much detail on a single component in the beginning. Give the high-level design first then drills down.
- If you get stuck, don't hesitate to ask for hints.
- Again, communicate. Don't think in silence.
- Don’t think your interview is done once you give the design. You are not done until your interviewer says you are done. Ask for feedback early and often.

Link:: [[Openbox/books/System Design Interview – An Insider's Guide\|System Design Interview – An Insider's Guide]]
