---
{"dg-publish":true,"tags":["quotes"],"date":"2024-05-22T14:04:42+03:00","title":"model document share for new process","aliases":"model document share for new process","dg-path":"/quotes/202405221404.md","permalink":"/quotes/202405221404/","dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


> Model. Start measuring your team’s health (maybe using short, monthly surveys) and your team’s throughput (do some lightweight form of task sizing, even if you just do it informally with a senior engineer on the team or with yourself), which will allow you to establish the baseline before your change.
Then just start running kanban. Don’t publicize it, don’t make a big deal about it, just start doing it with your team. Frame it as a short experiment with the team, and start trying it. Keep iterating on it until you’re confident it works. Have the courage to keep at it for a while, and also the courage to stop doing it if it doesn’t work after a month or two. Use the team’s health and throughput metrics to ground your decision about whether it’s working.
Document. After you’ve discovered an effective approach, document the problem you set out to solve, the learning process you went through, and the details of how another team would adopt the practice for themselves. Be as detailed as possible: make a canonical document, and even get a few folks on other teams to check that it’s readable from their perspective.
Share. The final step is to share your documented approach, along with your experience doing the rollout, in a short email. Don’t ask everyone to adopt the practice, don’t lobby for change, just present the approach and your experience following it.
You’ll spend the majority of your time refining approaches that work effectively for your team, a bit of your time documenting how you did it, and almost no time trying to convince folks to change their approach.
Strangely, in my experience, this has often led to more adoption than top-down mandates have.

Link:: [[Openbox/books/Become an Effective Software Engineering Manager\|Become an Effective Software Engineering Manager]]

