---
{"dg-publish":true,"aliases":["целеполагание"],"date":"2023-01-14T13:31:40+04:00","modified_at":"2023-05-31T17:05:50+04:00","dg-path":"/постановка целей.md","permalink":"/postanovka-czelej/","dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


## Какие бывают цели

1. Process goals:
- You need to master your processes before you can start promising yourself certain outcomes
- You learn and start to see results by being consistent, doing the right things, testing things and building your own systems and processes
- Process goals are the most critical as you begin your entrepreneurial journey
- These give you the room to grow and explore without being disappointed or discouraged
- Here is where you gain confidence in your abilities and research acumen
- The habits you form here will carry you over feeling unmotivated and uninspired (business does not care if you are uninspired, you lose momentum and you create waste)

2. Performance goals:
- These help you master the quality of your processes
- These are your standards for your performance and the performance of those around you, you cannot unlearn this and it is powerful to have high standards
- Setting out to raise your performance little by little helps you grow and adapt and flex that growth mindset
- Having high standards gives you personal power and personal magnetism

3. Outcome goals (last):
- These come with knowing the landscape and experience, which make these goals realistic and attainable
- These are based on data and experience, not idealistic wishes
- By now, you have mentors and have seen firsthand how to achieve these things so now it's a matter of planning and execution
- You are aware of what you need to do to start fulfilling your vision.
- You can start stacking your success and see visible outcomes for your effort.

## Фреймворки для постановки целей

1. SMART - Goals must be Specific, Measurable, Actionable, Relevant, and Timely. This approach is used by HubSpot and forces you to focus on choosing goals that are possible for producing business results.
2. OKRs - Goals are based on objectives you want to accomplish and the key results/metrics that must be achieved to reach the objective. Objectives are the things you want to achieve, and Key Results are the numbers you must hit to achieve the Objectives. 
3. BHAG - Big, Hairy, Audacious Goals
4. Backward Goals
5. One Word Goal Setting
6. Locke and Latham’s 5 principles
7. Tiered Goals Framework
8. Golden Circle
9. BSQ - Think Big, Act Small and Move Quickly.
10. OGSM - Objectives, Goals, Strategies & Measures
11. Goal Pyramid

## Источники

- https://www.reddit.com/r/productivity/comments/fehnil/3_hacks_about_goalsetting_productivity/ 
- https://jamesclear.com/goal-setting

## Дополнительные заметки

- [[Trash/Zettel/202110081200 PACT goals\|202110081200 PACT goals]]
- [[Trash/Zettel/202110081221 Different type of goals\|202110081221 Different type of goals]]
- [[Trash/Zettel/202201260958 Критерии для личных целей\|202201260958 Критерии для личных целей]]

{ .block-language-dataview}
